# Brute-Forcing Password Reset Tokens
***
### Identifying Weak Reset Tokens
#### Reset tokens, such as codes or temporary passwords, are confidential data generated by an application when a user initiates a password reset request. The user uses the reset token to change their password.
#### Because these tokens allow an attacker to reset a password without needing the original one, they can be exploited to take control of an account if not properly secured. The password reset process can be complex due to its multiple sequential steps, making it vulnerable if not implemented correctly.
#### In order to identify weak reset tokens, we need to create an account on the target web application, request a password reset token, and then analyze it.
#### For instance, a web application that sends an email  containing a password reset link, with a reset token in the GET-parameter **token**. Depending on the length of the token we can generate a tokens list to use in our brute force attack.
#### Example , creating a wordlist of all possible tokens with 4 digits:
```bash
$ seq -w 0 9999 > tokens.txt
```
#### **NOTE**: The `-w` flag is used to pad all numbers to the same length by prepending zeroes.

#### Then we can simply send a password reset request for the user that we want to target, and consequently it will create a reset token.
#### Lastly, we can use ffuf to perform a brute force attack to all active reset-tokens.
```bash
$ ffuf -w ./tokens.txt -u http://weak_l33t.org/reset_password.php?token=FUZZ -fr "The provided token is invalid"
```

